[serve] Serve get app handle docs (#39032)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/serve/multi-app.md

(serve-multi-application)=
# Deploy Multiple Applications

> Ray 2.4+ supports deploying multiple independent Serve applications. This user guide walks through how to generate a multi-application config file and deploy it using the Serve CLI, and monitor your applications using the CLI and the Ray Serve dashboard.

Reviewer: we can drop the release specification now

> In Ray 2.4+, deploying multiple independent Serve applications is supported. This user guide walks through how to generate a multi-application config file and deploy it using the Serve CLI, and monitor your applications using the CLI and the Ray Serve dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ray 2.4+ supports deploying multiple independent Serve applications. This user guide walks through how to generate a multi-application config file and deploy it using the Serve CLI, and monitor your applications using the CLI and the Ray Serve dashboard.
```

  grpc_servicer_functions: []

applications:

> - name: app1

Reviewer 3: Should we also change the app name to "classify" and "translate"?

Author: Since we include `serve build` as part of this doc and it autogenerates `app1` and `app2`, I think it's OK to leave as `app1` and `app2`

> > Sent deploy request successfully!

Reviewer 4: Is ray start needed?

Author: It's needed before running serve deploy. Do you mean if it's necessary to include in the docs?

'brown bear, bruin, Ursus arctos'

>>> requests.post("http://localhost:8000/translate", json={"text": "Hello, the weather is quite fine today!"}).text
'Hallo, das Wetter ist heute ziemlich gut!'
```

#### Development Workflow with `serve run`
You can also use the CLI command `serve run` to run and test your application easily, either locally or on a remote cluster. 
```console
$ serve run config.yaml
> 2023-04-04 11:00:05,901 INFO scripts.py:327 -- Deploying from config file: "config.yaml".
> 2023-04-04 11:00:07,505 INFO worker.py:1613 -- Started a local Ray instance. View the dashboard at http://127.0.0.1:8265
> 2023-04-04 11:00:09,012 SUCC scripts.py:393 -- Submitted deploy config successfully.
```

The command `serve run` blocks the terminal, which allows logs from Serve to stream to the console. This helps you test and debug your applications easily. If you want to change your code, you can hit Ctrl-C to interrupt the command and shutdown Serve and all its applications, then rerun `serve run`.

:::{note}

> `serve run` only has support for running multi-application config files. If you want to run applications directly without a config file `serve run` can only run one application at a time.

Reviewer 4: I think this note is a little unclear. serve run does allow you to specify applications right? Maybe explain that when using serve run it'll restart everything

Author: `serve run` can't run multiple applications by import path. I've updated the note to make that more clear!

> Sent deploy request successfully!
```

Query the applications at their respective endpoints, `/classify` and `/translate`.

> ```python

Reviewer 3: Should use [testcode](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-contribute/writing-code-snippets.html#code-output-style-examples) here. But maybe better to just move those to the .py file. 

Same goes to the rest of this file.

Author: Changed to using test code!

```

Query the applications at their respective endpoints, `/classify` and `/translate`.
```{literalinclude} doc_code/image_classifier_example.py
:language: python
:start-after: __request_begin__
:end-before: __request_end__
```
```{literalinclude} doc_code/translator_example.py
:language: python
:start-after: __request_begin__
:end-before: __request_end__
```

#### Development Workflow with `serve run`
You can also use the CLI command `serve run` to run and test your application easily, either locally or on a remote cluster. 
```console
$ serve run config.yaml
> 2023-04-04 11:00:05,901 INFO scripts.py:327 -- Deploying from config file: "config.yaml".
> 2023-04-04 11:00:07,505 INFO worker.py:1613 -- Started a local Ray instance. View the dashboard at http://127.0.0.1:8265
> 2023-04-04 11:00:09,012 SUCC scripts.py:393 -- Submitted deploy config successfully.
```

The command `serve run` blocks the terminal, which allows logs from Serve to stream to the console. This helps you test and debug your applications easily. If you want to change your code, you can hit Ctrl-C to interrupt the command and shutdown Serve and all its applications, then rerun `serve run`.

:::{note}

> `serve run` only has support for running multi-application config files. If you want to run applications by directly passing in an import path, `serve run` can only run one application import path at a time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`serve run` only supports running multi-application config files. If you want to run applications by directly passing in an import path, `serve run` can only run one application import path at a time.
```

```console
$ serve status
proxies:
  2e02a03ad64b3f3810b0dd6c3265c8a00ac36c13b2b0937cbf1ef153: HEALTHY
applications:

>   classify:

Reviewer 3: I think the config above is still using "app1" and "app2"?

Author: Yeah this output is wrong, I've changed it to app1 and app2

    last_deployed_time_s: 1693267064.0735464
    deployments:
      Translator:
        status: HEALTHY
        replica_states:
          RUNNING: 1
        message: ''
```

### Send requests between applications
You can also make calls between applications without going through HTTP by using the Serve API `serve.get_app_handle` to get a handle to any live Serve application on the cluster. This handle can be used to directly execute a request on an application. Take the classifier and translator app above as an example. We can modify the `__call__` method of the `ImageClassifier` to check for another parameter in the HTTP request, and send requests to the translator application.

```{literalinclude} doc_code/image_classifier_example.py
:language: python
:start-after: __serve_example_modified_begin__
:end-before: __serve_example_modified_end__
```

Then, sending requests to the classifier application with the `should_translate` flag set to True:
```python
import requests

requests.post("http://localhost:8000/classify", json={"image_url": "https://cdn.britannica.com/41/156441-050-A4424AEC/Grizzly-bear-Jasper-National-Park-Canada-Alberta.jpg", "should_translate": False}).text

> 'Braunbär, Bruin, Ursus arctos'

Reviewer 3: I'm kinda confused, should this be in English since `should_translate` is false?

Reviewer 3: Or maybe `should_translate` is meant to be true?

Author: Yeah it should be true, fixed

    last_deployed_time_s: 1693267064.0735464
    deployments:
      downloader:
        status: HEALTHY
        replica_states:
          RUNNING: 1
        message: ''
      ImageClassifier:
        status: HEALTHY
        replica_states:
          RUNNING: 1
        message: ''
  app2:
    status: RUNNING
    message: ''
    last_deployed_time_s: 1693267064.0735464
    deployments:
      Translator:
        status: HEALTHY
        replica_states:
          RUNNING: 1
        message: ''
```

### Send requests between applications
You can also make calls between applications without going through HTTP by using the Serve API `serve.get_app_handle` to get a handle to any live Serve application on the cluster. This handle can be used to directly execute a request on an application. Take the classifier and translator app above as an example. We can modify the `__call__` method of the `ImageClassifier` to check for another parameter in the HTTP request, and send requests to the translator application.

```{literalinclude} doc_code/image_classifier_example.py
:language: python
:start-after: __serve_example_modified_begin__
:end-before: __serve_example_modified_end__
```

> Then, sending requests to the classifier application with the `should_translate` flag set to True:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, send requests to the classifier application with the `should_translate` flag set to True:
```

```{literalinclude} doc_code/image_classifier_example.py
:language: python
:start-after: __second_request_begin__
:end-before: __second_request_end__
```

> ### Inspect Deeper

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Inspect deeper
```

For more details on the Ray Serve dashboard, see the [Serve dashboard documentation](dash-serve-view).

## Adding, Deleting, and Updating Applications
You can add, remove or update entries under the `applications` field to add, remove or update applications in the cluster. This will not affect other applications on the cluster. To update an application, modify the config options in the corresponding entry under the `applications` field.

:::{note}

> The in-place update behavior for an application when a config is resubmitted is the same as the old single-application behavior. For how an application reacts to different config changes, see [Updating a Serve Application](serve-inplace-updates).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The in-place update behavior for an application when a config is resubmitted is the same as the single-application behavior. For how an application reacts to different config changes, see [Updating a Serve Application](serve-inplace-updates).
```

For more details on the Ray Serve dashboard, see the [Serve dashboard documentation](dash-serve-view).

> ## Adding, Deleting, and Updating Applications

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Add, delete, and update applications
```

> You can add, remove or update entries under the `applications` field to add, remove or update applications in the cluster. This will not affect other applications on the cluster. To update an application, modify the config options in the corresponding entry under the `applications` field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can add, remove, or update entries under the `applications` field to add, remove, or update applications in the cluster. This doesn't affect other applications on the cluster. To update an application, modify the config options in the corresponding entry under the `applications` field.
```

:::{note}

> The in-place update behavior for an application when a config is resubmitted is the same as the single-application behavior. For how an application reacts to different config changes, see [Updating a Serve Application](serve-inplace-updates).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The in-place update behavior for an application when you resubmit a config is the same as the single-application behavior. For how an application reacts to different config changes, see [Updating a Serve Application](serve-inplace-updates).
```

:::

(serve-config-migration)=

> ### Migrating from a Single-Application Config

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Migrating from a single-application config
```
